Vice President Biden:
Hi, this is Joe Biden.
I'm filling in for President
Obama this weekend because he's
on his way back
from Afghanistan,
where he was spending some time
with the brave men and women of
our Armed Forces.
You all know it's tough -- it's tough to be far away from home
during the holidays if you're --
especially in a warzone,
so he wanted to be there in person to thank all of those
troops on behalf of the American people for the service and
sacrifice each one
of them are making.
And here at home, the First
Lady and my wife Jill have made
supporting military
families a priority.
You know, these families are also making difficult sacrifices
for our country, and they deserve our admiration and our
gratitude as well.
Our service members and their families are always on our
minds, even as the President and I are working on other issues
that are in -- critically important to the American people
-- issues that the American people are deeply concerned
about: accelerating the
recovery, growing our economy,
strengthening our middle class,
and getting our friends and
neighbors back to work.
In recent months, we've seen
encouraging signs on that front.
After shrinking for
four straight quarters,
our economy has now grown
five straight quarters.
After nearly two
years of job loss,
our economy has created more
than one million private sector
jobs just this year.
And after teetering on the
brink of liquidation last year,
our auto industry is
posting healthy gains,
assembly lines
are running again,
and American manufacturing
is getting up off the mat and
fighting its way back.
Still, Friday's jobs report was
a sobering reminder of that.
While we saw another month
of job growth in November,
it just wasn't enough.
And it underscores why it's so
important to get going without
delay on the two things that will most impact on growing our economy.
The first is, we've got to extend the tax cuts for the
middle class that are set to expire at the end of this month.
If we don't extend those tax cuts for the middle class,
millions of people, millions of families will see a big bite out
of their paychecks
starting on January 1.
And that's the last thing
we should let happen.
After a decade in which the middle class lost ground,
families can
ill-afford a tax hike --
and our economy cannot afford the hit it will take if middle
class families have
less money to spend.
And the second thing is -- we've got to do is we've got to extend
unemployment insurance for Americans who have lost their
jobs in a tough economy.
Without unemployment benefits,
families can't spend on basic
necessities that
are grown, made,
and sold by other Americans.
Together, the economic hit
caused by raising taxes on the
middle class, and denying two
million Americans unemployment
insurance, will wind up costing
us hundreds of thousands of jobs.
And that just isn't smart.
And cutting unemployment
insurance is not only not smart,
it's not right either.
It would mean telling millions
of our neighbors who are out of
work today through no
fault of their own,
that they're on their own.
That's no message to send
in the season of hope.
We all know someone who's been hit hard; hit a rough patch.
And when that
happens in America,
we help them get
back up on their feet.
That's who we are.
That's the American way.
So I just don't agree with
the folks who've said we can't
afford a lifeline for Americans
who've lost their job during the
worst recession in generations,
but we can afford to borrow
hundreds of billions of dollars
to extend tax cuts for the
wealthiest 2% of Americans.
That's bad economic policy, and
it's also just simply wrong.
Congress must extend those
needed unemployment benefits
before it goes home this year.
And it must bolster economic
growth by preserving tax cuts
for our middle class.
I'm glad that the House of
Representatives voted to do just
that this week, and I call
on the United States Senate to
do the same.
Look, folks, there's no doubt
these are tough times.
But we are slowly but surely
fighting our way back,
moving forward.
And we're going to keep
fighting to grow the economy,
to strengthen the middle class, and to restore the American Dream.
That's my pledge to you.
And hey, one last thing -- since the President will be back to
record this message next week, let me take this chance to say
from my family to yours: Merry Christmas, Happy Hanukkah,
have a great Holiday season
and an even better New Year.
Thanks.
Enjoy the weekend.